SQl server configureartion manager:

you can change the configuration sql server user (windows user so you can have administrative access, permission), 
you can start, stop and pause services from this.

you can check the version of sql engine 

enable the prtocols to be used while communicating

u can order/priorites the protocols to be used in client machine not in sql server, because u enabled every port number in
 sql server. just do it in client ,machine

change port number of tcp/ip for security purpose if u need. 

schema is nothing but namespace : its for the purpose of name conflication because u cant create same name table or 
column or database 
so for this reason we use schema to avoid name conflication.

synomnes are pointers to stored procedure. used for using stored procedure of masterdb

serial plan or paralell plan: 
cost of threshold: amount of time to do job 
degree of threshold: how many cores or schedulars can it use to do that job 




isolation levels in sql server 2016:

under READ COMITTED, the second SELECT may return any data. A concurrent transaction may update the record, delete it, insert new records. The second select will always see the new data.
under REPEATABLE READ the second SELECT is guaranteed to see the rows that has seen at first select unchanged. New rows may be added by a concurrent transaction in that one minute, but the existing rows cannot be deleted nor changed.
under SERIALIZABLE reads the second select is guaranteed to see exactly the same rows as the first. No row can change, nor deleted, nor new rows could be inserted by a concurrent transaction.


types of system database instance:
master
model
msdb
tempdb
resourcedb

masterdb:
it stores the configuration, meta data about all databases and as parent database which stores details about where 
databases store and structure of databases.if masterdb is down then all databases are goes down. so make sure u 
taken backup of masterdb.

modeldb:
its the common things to all new databases so whenever u create new database this model will be copied from system 
database of model.

msdb:
it is used mainly by SQL server agent to store system activities like jobs, mail,service broker, maintenance plan of user
and system database backup histroy. it is used by database engine and management studio. so if u want ur jobs to work 
properly take a backup of this db.

tempdb:
it will stores temporary databases tables for examples while doing joins we have to store 2 tables tempararly for joining,
it just act like temp object in programmimg langauge, it will stores tables temporarly to do the jobs.
if u stores more database in temporary db then u service become slow(querying becomes slow). if u loos this db also no 
problem.

resource db:
it is hidden db for security purpose. reason for this db to be hidden is because if u using SP_Help stored procedure,
this procedure is defualt so if this db is visible for everyone then any one change the code of this default procedure 
then whenever u run this procedure it will run that alterd procedure not microsofts originally developed/ created procedure
so for this purpose it is hidden but u can get copy of this db not original one.  
